README.md, before:

# Elm Land


[![Npm package version](https://badgen.net/npm/v/elm-land)](https://npmjs.com/package/elm-land) [![elm-land](https://github.com/elm-land/elm-land/actions/workflows/node.js.yml/badge.svg?)](https://github.com/elm-land/elm-land/actions/workflows/node.js.yml) [![BSD-3 Clause](https://img.shields.io/github/license/elm-land/elm-land)](https://github.com/elm-land/elm-land/blob/main/LICENSE)

[![Discord](https://badgen.net/discord/members/vnmYFfySbH?icon=discord&label)](https://join.elm.land) [![Twitter](https://badgen.net/badge/icon/twitter?icon=twitter&label&color=00acee)](https://twitter.com/elmland_) [![GitHub](https://badgen.net/badge/icon/github?icon=github&label&color=4078c0)](https://www.github.com/elm-land/elm-land) 

[![Elm Land: Reliable web apps for everyone](https://github.com/elm-land/elm-land/raw/main/elm-land-banner.jpg)](https://elm.land)


## Welcome to our repo!

The code for this GitHub project is broken down into smaller projects:

- __[elm-land](./projects/cli/)__ - The CLI tool, available at [npmjs.org/elm-land](https://npmjs.org/elm-land)
- __[@elm-land/www](./docs/)__ - The official website, available at [elm.land](https://elm.land)


### Tooling

This repo also includes a few tooling projects, separated out for anyone else making tooling for Elm:

- __[@elm-land/elm-error-json](./projects/tooling/elm-error-json/)__ - Render the Elm compiler's JSON error output as full-color HTML or colored ASCII terminal output

- __[@elm-land/codegen](./projects/tooling/codegen/)__ - a lightweight codegen library used internally by the Elm Land CLI

Commit message:

Create testing suite for @elm-land/graphql

README.md, after:

# Elm Land

 [![@elm-land/cli](https://github.com/elm-land/elm-land/actions/workflows/cli.js.yml/badge.svg?)](https://github.com/elm-land/elm-land/actions/workflows/cli.js.yml) [![@elm-land/graphql](https://github.com/elm-land/elm-land/actions/workflows/graphql.js.yml/badge.svg?)](https://github.com/elm-land/elm-land/actions/workflows/graphql.js.yml)

[![Elm Land: Reliable web apps for everyone](https://github.com/elm-land/elm-land/raw/main/elm-land-banner.jpg)](https://elm.land)

[![Latest NPM version](https://badgen.net/npm/v/elm-land)](https://npmjs.com/package/elm-land) [![BSD-3 Clause](https://img.shields.io/github/license/elm-land/elm-land?color=333)](https://github.com/elm-land/elm-land/blob/main/LICENSE)

[![Discord](https://badgen.net/discord/members/vnmYFfySbH?icon=discord&label)](https://join.elm.land) [![Twitter](https://badgen.net/badge/icon/twitter?icon=twitter&label&color=00acee)](https://twitter.com/elmland_) [![GitHub](https://badgen.net/badge/icon/github?icon=github&label&color=4078c0)](https://www.github.com/elm-land/elm-land) 

## Introduction

Welcome to [Elm Land](https://elm.land), an application framework that helps you build reliable web applications using the [Elm](https://elm-lang.org) programming language. 

Inspired by projects like [Nuxt](https://nuxt.com), [Next.js](https://nextjs.org), and [Ruby on Rails](https://rubyonrails.org/), Elm Land's goal is make you feel productive fast– especially if you're completely new to Elm.

We take care of the developer tooling, conventions, and learning resources so you can focus on building your next web app with confidence.

__Ready to get started?__ Your adventure begins at https://elm.land/guide

---

## Navigating this repo

Elm Land is open source and free to use. The code for this GitHub project is broken down into smaller projects:

- __[@elm-land/cli](./projects/cli/)__ - The CLI tool, available at [npmjs.org/elm-land](https://npmjs.org/elm-land)
- __[@elm-land/www](./docs/)__ - The official website, available at [elm.land](https://elm.land)

### 🧩 Plugins

This repo also has official plugins to help you be productive in any Elm application, even if you're not using the Elm Land application framework.

These cover popular frontend technologies that might not make sense for every web application. 

Here are the available plugins:

- __[@elm-land/graphql](./projects/graphql/)__ - Write __GraphQL__ code and we'll generate the Elm code for you! (Available via [npm](https://npmjs.org/@elm-land/graphql))

### 🛠️ Tooling

To help make the projects mentioned above work, we created a few tools. We've separated those out for anyone else making tools for Elm:

- __[@elm-land/elm-error-json](./projects/tooling/elm-error-json/)__ - Render the Elm compiler's JSON error output as full-color HTML or colored ASCII terminal output

- __[@elm-land/codegen](./projects/tooling/codegen/)__ - a lightweight codegen library used internally by the Elm Land CLI
