docs/guide/index.md, before:

# Getting started

### What we'll learn

- How to install Elm Land 
- How to create our first project
- How to run the project in our browser

<BrowserWindow src="/images/guide/hello-world.jpg" alt="Homepage" url="http://localhost:1234" />


## Prerequisites

- [Node.js v16 or higher](https://nodejs.org)
- A code editor like [VS code](https://code.visualstudio.com/)


## Your first project

You can get started with _Elm Land_ using the official CLI tool available on [NPM](https://npmjs.org/elm-land). Let's start by using the `elm-land init` command to create our first project:

```sh
npx elm-land init hello-world
```

```txt
🌈  Elm Land created a new project in ./hello-world
    ⎺⎺⎺⎺⎺⎺⎺⎺⎺⎺⎺⎺⎺⎺⎺⎺⎺⎺⎺⎺⎺⎺⎺⎺⎺⎺⎺⎺⎺⎺⎺⎺⎺⎺⎺⎺⎺⎺⎺⎺⎺⎺⎺⎺⎺⎺⎺
    Here are some next steps:

    📂 cd hello-world
    🚀 elm-land server
```

## Running the dev server

The _Elm Land_ CLI tool comes with a dev server built-in, so you can run your new project in the browser with the `elm-land server` command:

```sh
npx elm-land server
```

```txt
🌈  Elm Land is ready at http://localhost:1234
```

Visiting `http://localhost:1234` in your browser will show you your new web app!

### You did it! :tada:

That's "Hello world!", but your app might need more than just a friendly homepage. The next guide will show you how to use the CLI to add more pages. See you there!

Commit message:

remove npx from docs, add installation step

docs/guide/index.md, after:

# Getting started

### What we'll learn

- How to install Elm Land 
- How to create our first project
- How to run the project in our browser

<BrowserWindow src="/images/guide/hello-world.jpg" alt="Homepage" url="http://localhost:1234" />


## Prerequisites

- [Node.js v16 or higher](https://nodejs.org)
- A code editor like [VS code](https://code.visualstudio.com/)


## Installation

To get started, install the latest version of Elm Land via NPM:

```sh
npm install -g elm-land@latest
```

This will give you access to the `elm-land` command in your terminal! 

::: warning Issues with NPM?

If you see a scary `EACCES` error, check out this [guide from NPM](https://docs.npmjs.com/resolving-eacces-permissions-errors-when-installing-packages-globally) on how to fix it!

:::

## Your first project

You can get started with _Elm Land_ using the official CLI tool available on [NPM](https://npmjs.org/elm-land). Let's start by using the `elm-land init` command to create our first project:

```sh
elm-land init hello-world
```

```txt
🌈  Elm Land created a new project in ./hello-world
    ⎺⎺⎺⎺⎺⎺⎺⎺⎺⎺⎺⎺⎺⎺⎺⎺⎺⎺⎺⎺⎺⎺⎺⎺⎺⎺⎺⎺⎺⎺⎺⎺⎺⎺⎺⎺⎺⎺⎺⎺⎺⎺⎺⎺⎺⎺⎺
    Here are some next steps:

    📂 cd hello-world
    🚀 elm-land server
```

## Running the dev server

The _Elm Land_ CLI tool comes with a dev server built-in, so you can run your new project in the browser with the `elm-land server` command:

```sh
elm-land server
```

```txt
🌈  Elm Land is ready at http://localhost:1234
```

Visiting `http://localhost:1234` in your browser will show you your new web app!

### You did it! :tada:

That's "Hello world!", but your app might need more than just a friendly homepage. The next guide will show you how to use the CLI to add more pages. See you there!
