docs/index.md, before:

---
layout: home
titleTemplate: Reliable web apps for everyone
hero:
  image: 
    src: /images/logo-480.png
    alt: Elm Land logo
  name: "Reliable web apps"
  text: "for everyone."
  tagline: A (not yet) production-ready framework for building Elm applications. Build your next app with confidence, step by step.
  actions: 
    - text: Get started
      link: /guide/
    - text: Follow for updates
      link: https://twitter.com/elmland_
      theme: alt
features:
- icon: 🪄
  title: File-based routing
  details: Automatically connects pages to URLs based on an easy-to-follow file naming convention. Add new features and let Elm Land wire up the rest.
- icon: ⚡️
  title: Lightning-fast dev server
  details: Comes with a zero-configuration, hot-reloading dev server. Access environment variables, easily interop with JS, add CSS files, and more!
- icon: 📦
  title: Easily deploy on the web
  details: Every Elm Land app can easily be shared on the web as a single-page application. Includes detailed guides for deploying with providers like Vercel and Netlify.
footer: Made for you with ❤️
---

<style>
  :root {
    --vp-home-hero-name-color: mediumseagreen;
  }
</style>

Commit message:

elm-land customize shared updated, add docs outline, more placeholder examples

docs/index.md, after:

---
layout: home
titleTemplate: Reliable web apps for everyone
hero:
  image: 
    src: /images/logo-480.png
    alt: Elm Land logo
  name: "Reliable web apps"
  text: "for everyone."
  tagline: A production-ready framework for building Elm applications. Build your next app with confidence, step by step.
  actions: 
    - text: Get started
      link: /guide/
    - text: Follow for updates
      link: https://twitter.com/elmland_
      theme: alt
features:
# - icon: 🪄
#   title: File-based routing
#   details: Elm Land automatically connects your pages to URLs, based on an easy-to-remember file-naming convention. Add new features and let Elm Land wire up the rest.
- icon: 🌱
  title: Beginners welcome
  details: New to Elm or web development? Elm Land was designed to make you productive, fast! This website is your resource for building your next reliable web application.
- icon: ⚡️
  title: Built-in dev server
  details: Comes with a zero-configuration, lightning-fast development server. Access environment variables, easily work with NPM, TypeScript, add CSS files, and more!
- icon: 📦
  title: Easy to deploy
  details: Elm Land is designed to be hosted for free on the web as a single-page application. Check out our detailed guides on how to deploy your app with Netlify or Vercel.
footer: Made for you with ❤️
---

<style>
  :root {
    --vp-home-hero-name-color: mediumseagreen;
  }
</style>
